riak-mdc-mon
=====================================================================
Tool for monitoring replication between remote data centers
without connectivity beyond Riak K/V replication. The tool is
configured by file and will alarm when the difference between a 
local timestamp and a timestamp written into Riak K/V at a 
remote location exceeds the configured threshold.  The tool 
has the ability to log the alarm to the console, a log file, and 
SNMP V1 trap.  Out of tolerance alarms will be generated whenever
the configured tolerance is exceeded however an in tolerance alarm
will only be generated when the value is in tolerance and the
previous value was out of tolerance.

Building
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Using Maven:
```mvn package```
Builds the project and creates a distributable tarball in the 
target/directory

Configuration
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Example app.properties file:
<pre>
riak.hosts.count=1
riak.hosts.1.hostName=localhost
riak.port=18098
riak.useProtocolBuffers=false
riak.mdcStatsBucket=MDCStats
dataCenter.id=US_East
remoteDataCenter.count=1
remoteDataCenter.1.id=US_West
remoteDataCenter.latencyThreshold=30000
alarmHandler.console.enable=true
alarmHandler.log.enable=true
alarmHandler.log.filename=/var/log/mdc_monitor.log
alarmHandler.snmp.enable=true
alarmHandler.snmp.hostName=localhost
alarmHandler.snmp.port=162
alarmHandler.snmp.community=public
</pre>

riak.hosts.count Specifies the number of local Riak nodes.  
riak.hosts.NUMBER.hostName Specifies the hostname of a local Riak Node
where NUMBER is the increasing count of nodes.  
riak.port Specifies the port on which to connect to Riak.  
riak.useProtocolBuffers True/False. If false, HTTP will be used.  
riak.mdcStatsBucket Specifies the bucket in Riak where timestamps will
be stored.  
dataCenter.id Specifies the local ID of the local data center which will
be referenced by other data centers.  
remoteDataCenter.count Specifies the number of remote data centers which
will be monitored.  
remoteDataCenter.NUMBER.id Specifies the id of a remote data center where
NUMBER is the increasing count of remote data centers.  
remoteDataCenter.latencyThreshold Specifies the number of milliseconds
beyond which an alarm will be generated by the tool.  
alarmHandler.console.enable Enable console output.  
alarmHandler.log.enable Enable log file output.  
alarmHandler.log.filename Specify the log filename for the tool.  
alarmHandler.snmp.enable Enable SNMP logging.  
alarmHandler.snmp.hostName Specify the host name of the SNMP Manager.  
alarmHandler.snmp.port Specify the trap port of the SNMP Manager.  
alarmHandler.snmp.community Specify the community used in the SNMP trap.  

Usage
---------------------------------------------------------------------
```java -jar riak-mdc-mon-0.0.1.jar -p <app.properties> [options]```

Options:  
-p <app.properties> Set the properties file, defined above, to configure
the tool.  Required.
-t Test alarm generation with out of tolerance alarms based on the
configured values.  
-n Test alarm generation with in tolerance alarms based on the configured
values.  

Examples
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Run the program in normal mode:  
```java -jar riak-mdc-mon-0.0.1.jar -p /path/to/app.properties```  

Run the program in test mode, testing out of tolerance alarms:  
```java -jar riak-mdc-mon-0.0.1.jar -p /path/to/app.properties -t```  

Run the program in test mode, testing in tolerance alarms:  
```java -jar riak-mdc-mon-0.0.1.jar -p /path/to/app.properties -n```  

File Log Format
---------------------------------------------------------------------
{Date/Time}\t{RemoteDataCenterId}\t{MeasuredLatency}\t{LatencyThreshold}\n  

SNMP Specific Details
---------------------------------------------------------------------
The MIB defining in-tolerance and out-tolerance traps sent are defined
the MIB file located in the conf directory.  These changes will 
eventually be merged into main Riak SNMP MIB but are distributed
separately currently.